Add broker and gateway YAML to docs (#1865)
camunda/camunda-platform-docs: docs/self-managed/zeebe-deployment/configuration/gateway.md

---
id: gateway-config
title: "Gateway configuration"
sidebar_label: "Gateway configuration"
description: "Let's analyze how to configure the Zeebe gateway"
---

> A complete gateway configuration template is available in the [Zeebe repo](https://github.com/camunda/zeebe/blob/main/dist/src/main/config/gateway.yaml.template).

Reviewer: 💭 eventually the versioned configuration docs and the content this link will diverge, given main will be 8.3 anytime now. Do we have similar cases, what could be the options to keep them sync? (copy the yaml for a version into the docs? link to the stable branches based on version and only to main from `next`?)

Author: Good point. We don't have a process for this currently. Looking at the tags in the Zeebe repo, there are many tag options (8.1.x, for example) per minor. 

Linking to main in `next` seems easiest. But every time we cut a new release, should we point to 8.x.0? We could add a note that users could look for other versions in the repo.

Reviewer: For every supported minor release we have a `stable/8.x` branch, e.g. the newest https://github.com/camunda/zeebe/tree/stable/8.2, these could be used.

#### YAML snippet

```yaml
longPolling:
  enabled: true
```

### zeebe.gateway.interceptors

Consider reading our documentation on interceptors first.

Each interceptor should be configured with the values described below:

<table name="interceptors" id="interceptors">
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Field</th>
            <th>Description</th>
            <th>Example Value</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td>id</td>
            <td>Identifier for this interceptor. This setting can also be overridden using the environment variable `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_INTERCEPTORS_0_ID`.</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>jarPath</td>
            <td>Path (relative or absolute) to the JAR file containing the interceptor class and its dependencies. All classes must be compiled for the same language version as Zeebe or lower. This setting can also be overridden using the environment variable `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_INTERCEPTORS_0_JARPATH`.</td>
            <td></td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td>className</td>
            <td>Entry point of the interceptor, a class which must:

>               <li>implement [io.grpc.ServerInterceptor](https://grpc.github.io/grpc-java/javadoc/io/grpc/ServerInterceptor.html)</li>

Reviewer: this markdown link doesn't render for me, also needs to be a html link then? 😢

Author: fixed ✅

---
id: gateway-config
title: "Gateway configuration"
sidebar_label: "Gateway configuration"
description: "Analyze how to configure the Zeebe gateway, including byte sizes, time units, paths, and sample YAML snippets."
---

A complete gateway configuration template is available in the [Zeebe repository](https://github.com/camunda/zeebe/blob/main/dist/src/main/config/gateway.yaml.template).

## Conventions

Take the following conventions into consideration when working with the gateway configuration.

### Byte sizes

> For buffers and others must be specified as strings and follow the following format: "10U" where U (unit) must be replaced with KB = Kilobytes, MB = Megabytes or GB = Gigabytes. If unit is omitted, the default unit is bytes.

Reviewer 2: "For buffers and others must be specified as strings..." -- what do we mean by "others" here?

Reviewer: from my understanding that is a general wildcard for anything that requires some data size, e.g. also size limits such as [`maxMessageSize`](https://github.com/camunda/zeebe/blame/main/dist/src/main/config/gateway.yaml.template#L53).
Buffers is essentially just an example, given this do you have a suggestion on how to best rephrase?

Author: Maybe something like "For buffers and other data values that include sizing..."

Author: @christinaausley do you have a suggestion for phrasing here? My suggestion still feels a bit awkward.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps "Buffers and data values referencing sizing must be specified as strings..."

> For buffers and others must be specified as strings and follow the following format: "10U" where U (unit) must be replaced with KB = Kilobytes, MB = Megabytes or GB = Gigabytes. If unit is omitted, the default unit is bytes.

Author: ```suggestion
Buffers and data values referencing sizing must be specified as strings and follow the following format: "10U" where U (unit) must be replaced with KB = Kilobytes, MB = Megabytes or GB = Gigabytes. If unit is omitted then the default unit is simply bytes.
```

| certificateChainPath | Sets the path to the certificate chain file. This setting can also be overridden using the environment variable `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_SECURITY_CERTIFICATECHAINPATH`.   |               |
| privateKeyPath       | Sets the path to the private key file location. This setting can also be overridden using the environment variable `ZEEBE_GATEWAY_SECURITY_PRIVATEKEYPATH`.      |               |

#### YAML snippet

```yaml
security:
  enabled: false
  certificateChainPath:
  privateKeyPath:
```

### zeebe.gateway.longPolling

| Field   | Description                                                                                                                                      | Example value |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------- |
| enabled | Enables long polling for available jobs. This setting can also be overridden using the environment `variable ZEEBE_GATEWAY_LONGPOLLING_ENABLED`. | True          |

#### YAML snippet

```yaml
longPolling:
  enabled: true
```

### zeebe.gateway.interceptors

> Consider reading our documentation on interceptors first.

Reviewer 2: Should likely link to the interceptors documentation here.

Each interceptor should be configured with the values described below:

> <table name="interceptors" id="interceptors">

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason why this table is structured differently from the others?

Author: Laziness and the list elements did not easily convert in markdown.
